Basics:


console.log("");   

How to have the computer print out certain text

//comment                

How to make something a comment, the computer will not read it but you can. This is used to describe what your code does to other coders.

"hello".length    "hello, how are you?"

This is how you are able to read the length of a word, for example hello would be 5 while the other would be 19

+ - / *           

All symbols used in javascript for addition, subtraction, division, and multiplication

> >= <= <

Symbols used in javascript that represent greater than, greather than or equal to, less than or equal to, and less than.

confirm("Is this real?");       

This is an example of a confirm option, you can set certain variable to be equal to the response of this, where the only two answers are yes(true) or no(false)

("This isn't less than ten").length < 10

This is an example of a boolean. Booleans can either be true or false, nothing else. They can be used in loops or if/else statments.

console.log("The beginning");

Console.log is one of the most basic types of commands but you can use this in almost every program you create. This causes to have the computer print out 
whatever is inside the loop. When in "" marks it is text, without it is a variable or number such as console.log(variableX) or console.log(3/3)

Console.log(129 > 1)

This is an example of a boolean being printed out by console.log, where it prints out either true or false

if (1 = 5) {
console.log("Wrong answer);
}
else {
console.log("Right");
}

This is the first example of a if/else statement, one of the more commonly used functions in javascript, it can be used it nearly everything. As you can see if what is inside 
the first set of () is true then it will run the firsst console.log, if not then it will run the second.

console.log(11%2);

This is one of the many math functions in javascript, where the first number is divided by the second and then the leftover is printed out. For this it would be 1.

"hsjhellolsdaj".substring(3,8);

This is called a substring, it selects certain parts of a word, sentence, or random letters than prints thme out. This function would print out hello, 
starting after the 3rd letter and ending at the 8th.

var devs = 1;

This is called a variable and is used to store certain information. They can be set to true, false, a number, or random text.








This conclude this introduction, with this you can make basic programs. Most of these may seem unless but there are few programs that wont use them. Hang in there.

-Chris